---
layout: post
title: "Life_Paper #2 - Brake"
tags: [Life_Paper]
feature-img: assets/img/myimages/onyourmark.jpeg
---
Why do you think brakes are installed? *So that you can speedup.*

## Apology
I had planned and promise to include *Strategies, Targets & Accomplishments, Week Story, Next Week Goals*; but i had not been able to follow the plan, partially due to partial and incomplete planning. Remember
> Plans are nothing, planning is everything.

Following that I am shifting my week to Mon-Sun and I will try to incorporate this principal in small targets too. Specially, thanks to my friend for pushing me.

# WeekStory & Experience
On first day itself, I had to go to Dehradun to help my friend Saurabh, who recently met an accident. Though i don't like traveling(specially when it is for a purpose), but this trip proved to be a great experience.

While traveling, I started reading *Kafka On The Shore* audio-book and I found it suits and soothes. I noticed :
* Reading audio-books appreciably increases my imagination.
* Helps comprehend books better and increases my visual memory.

Throughout the week I worked on my [internship](https://github.com/chillspace-cafe/) and on recruitment for [MDG](http://mdg.iitr.ac.in/). The best learning I would like to share is from interviews I took(thanks to MDG), please ***take care of the following points during your interview:*** (personal observations)
* **Keep Speaking** - Zipping your mouth gives an impression of interviewee not being able to comprehend and concentrate on problem.
  * Keep speaking what you are contemplating. This, except impression, (from comments from interviewer) will also keep confirming your approach being right.
  * Ask questions(simple questions shows your approach and simply untangles the purpose behind the problem).
* **OK-OK** - An extensions of "Keep Speaking" is to gradually increase the quality of your solution rather than going for best at once.
  * Giving best answer is best of-course, but follow this approach to play safe. ;)
* **Intuition** - Intuition and imagination are positively impact-full.
  * Use imagination (& show it show to interviewer) for math & general creativity problems.
* **Observational Skills** - Check your surrounding & give examples from them specifically for creativity problems. This shows your explanatory and observational skills.
  * Sharing other observations (about tech. & in general) can be really helpful.
* **Expressions** - Human(however logical) can never break chains of feelings. Use it on your interviewer :
  * <u>Smile</u> : Little but keep smiling.
    * This shows your confidence & how much embrace the company and challenges.
  * <u>Eyes</u> : Move but not too much that feels weird. Lightly focus on eyes & mouth of interviewer while talking.
> **Aankhen milao lekin pyar se.**

  * <u>Voice</u> : Use an enthusiastic voice but a calm one.
    * Speak or Don't : But no umm-humm(ing).
  * <u>Posture</u> :  
    * Straight posture : shows confidence.
    * Little Slack : shows respect.
* **IMPORTANT** - Its okay to be nervous, you can say that you are really excited and a little nervous. Say it, take a deep breath and start over.
  * <u>Bonus</u>: Having curd before interviews keep BP down. ;)

That's it for this time, I will try to do better and share more knowledge.

*Thank you very very much dear Readers for supporting and motivating me.*

### Next Week Goals

|Work|Goal|
|---|---|
|Competitive Programming|Complete basic DS and basic algorithms|
|GSOC|Work input : 4*7 Hrs|
|Winter Intern|5 Hrs|
|Operating System|15H = 2h*7d|
|*Book* = [Kafka On The Shore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kafka_on_the_Shore)|Complete this previously started book|
