---
layout: post
title: Emulating Network Conditions for Testing with netem and iperf3 
feature-img: "assets/img/thumbnails/feature-img/netem-iperf3.png"
tags: [Netm, iperf3]
---

In the world of networking, ensuring your applications perform seamlessly under various network conditions is **paramount**. To achieve this, tools like **netem** and **iperf3** come to the rescue, enabling you to simulate and test different network scenarios right from your own development environment.

## Emulating Network Conditions with netem

netem is a Linux kernel module that enables you to introduce controlled network impairments. With netem, you can replicate real-world network challenges in a controlled environment. This tool allows you to emulate Latency, Packet Loss, Limit Bandwidth, Duplicate Packets and more (for more information go to the [Netem man page.](https://www.linux.org/docs/man8/tc-netem.html))

The netem module is usually built into the Linux kernel, so no separate installation is required. You'll need to use the tc (traffic control) command to manipulate network traffic. For instance, you can emulate different network conditions like latency and packet loss, below we can see some examples of the use of netem:

```bash
# To add latency
sudo tc qdisc add dev eth0 root netem delay <delay_in_ms>

# To introduce packet los
sudo tc qdisc add dev eth0 root netem loss <loss_percentage>%

# To limit the bandwidth
sudo tc qdisc add dev eth0 root tbf rate <rate>mbit burst <burst_size> latency <latency_in_ms>

# Remember change eth0 with the name of your NIC
```

## Measuring Performance with iperf3

While netem lets us recreate different network conditions, **iperf3** helps measure the impact of these conditions on network performance. First, ensure that iperf3 is installed on both the client and server machines. Once you've set up the desired network conditions using netem, you can use iperf3 to measure the performance of your network, the basic commands are *iperf3 -s* for the server and *iperf3 -c* for the client for more information go to the [iPerf3 man page.](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E88353_01/html/E37839/iperf3-1.html))

On the server machine, start iperf3 in server mode
```bash
iperf3 -s

```

On the client machine, initiate the test by connecting to the server:
```bash
iperf3 -c <server_ip>

```
### More examples

You can  use iperf3 to test **UDP traffic** use the **-u** flag

**Server Side**
```bash
iperf3 -s -u
```

**Client Side**
```bash
iperf3 -c <server_ip> -u
```

You also can specify a different port using the **-p** flag and set the test duration with the **-t** flag (in seconds)

**Server Side**
```bash
iperf3 -s -p <port_number>

```

**Client Side**
```bash
iperf3 -c <server_ip> -p <port_number> -t <duration>

```
You can test the impact of multiple parallel connections on network performance. Use the **-P** flag to specify the number of parallel client threads


**Client Side**
```bash
iperf3 -c <server_ip> -P <num_threads>

```

If you want to test the upload speed the **-R** flag to indicate reverse mode

**Client Side**
```bash
iperf3 -c <server_ip> -R

```

## Conclusion

Testing applications in real-world network conditions is a crucial step in ensuring their reliability and performance. netem and iperf3 provide a powerful duo for emulating and evaluating different network scenarios. By harnessing the capabilities of these tools, developers can enhance their applications ability to handle adverse network conditions, ultimately delivering a better user experience.