---
layout: post
title: Curriculum Vitae 
feature-img: "assets/img/thumbnails/feature-img/cv-header.png"
tags: [CV, Path]
---
**Hello everyone!**
I'm thrilled to share my professional journey with you all. My updated Curriculum Vitae (CV) is now available for download in both English and Spanish, aiming to reach a wider audience and seize exciting opportunities on an international scale.

## Curriculum Vitae

English CV Download Link: [Click here to download my CV in English.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mO3zxmuiDI3nhZEqYduwGyTHnBFD3S8v/view?usp=sharing)

CV en Español - Link de descarga: [Haz clic para descargar mi CV en español](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o2r1jjhe7RyJ2Yk8-EHhF4LGRPzVJ7mT/view?usp=sharing)

In this CV, you'll find a succinct summary of my education, work experience, achievements, skills, and passion for growth. It showcases my dedication to personal development and commitment to contributing positively to a team or organization.

I've carefully crafted my CV to highlight my unique strengths and accomplishments, ensuring it resonates with potential employers and collaborators alike.

Whether you're an employer seeking a  professional or a fellow enthusiast keen on networking, I invite you to take a look at my CV. Feel free to share it with anyone who might find value in my skills and expertise.

If you have any questions or would like to connect, please don't hesitate to reach out to me via mail or any of the networks that are at the end of the page.

Thank you for your support, and I look forward to the exciting possibilities that lie ahead.

Best regards,
Felipe Tapia C. 
